mileage trips (里程旅行)
- 例句
  - For shopping，the mileage of females outnumber that of males，with 30000 miles and 28000 miles respectively
  - For family and friends，the mileage of females far exceed that of males， which are 25000 miles and 21000 miles 
  - females take trips mainly for entertainment purpose（） working and learning
- maps
  - the maps illustrate changes of the geographic layout of Queen Mary over the course of 20 years（1960 to 3000）.写作时候可以直接加括号
  - overview： overall，a series of radical changes（剧变） happened to the region cancercentrecentre and .... became more multifunctional
  - in（在内部 大地方）on（接壤）to（跨海 不接壤）at（小地方 home zoo）
  - body
    - 描述地图 map1 中每个元素的相对位置 方位 用东西南北 northeastern（东南的）adj. 形容词
    - the road was located in the north of the region.
    - ran along the west-east direction
    - the shopping certer was on the south of the main road
    - to its east was the hospital
    - next to the shopping center
    - to the north of the shopping center was the farmland
    - the southeastern corner was occupied by the car park
    - 练习例句
      - the main road was located in north of the region, and ran along the  west-east direction
      - along the surthern side of the road was a shopping center
      - to the east of the shopping center was a hopital.
      - the farmland was localed to the south of the shopping center.
      - the southeastern corner was occupied(占用) by the car park.
  - body2
    - a and b are connected（a 和 b 在连接中）
    - the cafe was replaced（这个咖啡馆被取消）
    - the cafe was relocated in the north-eastern corner
    - the original car park give way to the library
    - the shopping center gave way to a cancer centre and a pharmacy
    - is replace by  
    - be relocated between... and......
    - the size of carpark was shrank and the size of cancer centre expanded.
    - the nursing school was reclocaed between the cancer centre and the carpark
    - expand 主动 double 主动
    - 影响
      - 不一定非要写
      - bring convenience to patients
      - cultvating talents for the hospital
- 流程图（flow charts/process chart）
  -  原料可写可不写
  - the flow charts indicate the precess of producing canned fruits. 
  - overiew 介绍原料
    - the raw materials for canned friuits are oranges and grapes.
      - there are 14 stage in the whole process
  - 表示顺序的连接词
    - at first 
      - initally  
      - in the first stage =
      - during the initial phase  
      - the first stage involves sth
    - then
      - in the next stage
    - after
    - which are
    - before
    - afterward
    - it is in the sp that
    - the qualified ones
    - subsequently
    - 
  - n + be done body + 连接词
    - apples are picked after they are ripe.
    - Then they are transported to the factory
    - they are chosen according to the size and the quailty
    - thry are washing 
    - they are storage 
    - they are peeled
    - they are divided
    - they are put it into a bottle mixed with water, juice, and syrup to add the flavor.
    - they are sealed
    - the bottles are cooked and sterillzed.
    - they are send to the supermarket
  
- 生词
  - data
  - concerning = reason（结果）
  - causes
  - males
  - females
  - indicate
  - motivator
  - shrink（缩小）shrank（过去式）
  - cancer（癌症）
  - prevents（防止）