# 雅思写作笔记

规律不可以加数据

**静态图的开头段：**

The pie charts indicates 写作对象 + 地点+ 时间.

The pie charts indicates the percentage of people who leave or stay in UK for different reasons.

The bar chart indicates the number of students who like different kinds of subjects in school A and B.

The bar chart demonstrates the quantity（可数不可数都可以用） of tea and coffee which was imported by four countries in 2007.

The bar chart compares 分类 in terms of 对象+地点 +时间

the bar chart compares school A and B in terms of the number of students who like different kinds of subjects

the bar chart compares four countries in terms of the import volume/quantity of tea and coffee

**动态图倍数：**

男生的数量 1900:200---2000:40
the number of boys doubled from 200 in 1990 to 400 in 2000.
the number of boys rose twofold from 200 in 1990 to 400 in 2000.

**静态图倍数：**

男生的数量 200 女生的数量 400

The number of girls was 400,which was twice as large as that of boys.

There were 400 girls, which were twice as many as boys.

The percentage of people who stay in UK because of family or friends is 42%,which was twice as large as the figure for social life.

people who stay in UK for family or friend account for 42%,which are twice as many as those for social life.

**对比比较总结：**

1.  对象 was the highest. with 数, compared with .....

2.  平行/相反： 写作对象a experience a similar/an opposite trend with 对象b

例
the number of boys experienced a similar trend with that of girls in the first ten years.

3.  两个趋势写到一个句子中
4.  .....overtake.....,ranking first.
5.  .......while.......
6.  .......,followed by
7.  by/in contrast,/Conversely,......
8.  In comparison,......
9.  比较级，最高级：
the number of boys is larger than that of girls.

there are more boys than girls.

10. 倍数
    动态图倍数：
    男生的数量 1900:200---2000:40
    the number of boys doubled from 200 in 1990 to 400 in 2000.
    the number of boys rose twofold from 200 in 1990 to 400 in 2000.

    静态图倍数：
    男生的数量 200 女生的数量 400
    The number of girls was 400,which was twice as large as that of boys.

    There were 400 girls, which were twice as many as boys.

The number of students whose favourite subject is sports from school A is 36,followed by the figure of science from school a

The number of students chooseing sport as their favourite subject from school A is 36,followed by the figure of science from school a

to be more specific, in school a,

36个学生喜欢sport：
1.  36 students like
    like/are fond of /are interested in/are crazy about

three fifth(3/5)

overall,in schools A.the largest number of students chooseing sport as their favourite subject.while most students are interested in \ perfect to choose drewing of craft as their favourite subject.

after London， paris is the next oldest system，follow by tokoyo， washington dc and kyoto

**数字**

160000 tonnes of tea was imported by uk

the amount of tea imported by uk was 16000 tonnes

tea in uk was very popular， with 16000 tones being imported。
tea was welcomed by uk， with
